3.0 docs (#7)
nyxx-discord/nyxx_docs: src/guides/migrationtoversion3.md

---
title: migration to nyxx_* 3.x
author: l7ssha
timestamp: 2021-12-17
category: guides
---

`3.0.0` includes some big changes which are breaking to most of the code from previous version.
This guide is going to be broken into parts for each library.

> Biggest change for each library are new entities model which incorporates interfaces for each class provided by library.

Reviewer: This could be reworded so that its easier to read

Interfaces are now exposed instead of concrete implementations of class which allows easier extending, mocking and replacing nyxx
and its components.

## nyxx

#### `INyxxFactory` and `connect` in INyxx

>   Since this release only way to spawn a new instance of nyxx is via `NyxxFactory` via `createNyxxWebsocket` which creates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Since this release the only way to spawn a new instance of nyxx is via `NyxxFactory`'s method `createNyxxWebsocket` which creates
```

>   new instance of `INyxxWebsocket` which is like old `Nyxx` and `createNyxxRest` which creates new instance of nyxx that won't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  new instance of `INyxxWebsocket` which is comparable to old `Nyxx`. The `createNyxxRest` method creates a new instance of nyxx that won't
```

  connect to websocket and will operate in REST only mode.

  Another big change in that regard is addition of new method `connect` on both `INyxxRest` and `INyxxWebsocket` which delegates
  some logic from constructors of each class to make possible to implement other features.

#### `Interface-based entity model`

  Concrete implementations of classes are now hidden and interfaces are exposed.

>   Here, nothing should particularly change but keep in mind you are now receiving not `User` but `IUser` which represents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Here, nothing should particularly change but keep in mind you are now receiving not `User` but `IUser` which represents a
```

  user entity, but it's completely transparent on what it can do but hides how its achieved. It allows us to modify underlying
  logic more easily.

#### `Plugin system`

  This version ships with first iteration of plugin system which allows creating small and lightweight addons for library.
  Functionality which was previously default is now moved to 3 plugins that are provided by default and developer needs to

>   specify what plugin he wants to use. Plugins provided by default are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  specify what plugin they wants to use. Plugins provided by default are:
```

   - `CliIntegration`
   - `IgnoreExceptions`
   - `Logging`

  Example usage of plugins:
  ```dart
  final bot = NyxxFactory.createNyxxWebsocket("<TOKEN>", GatewayIntents.allUnprivileged)
    ..registerPlugin(Logging())
    ..connect();
  ```
  Now there are 3 hooks that are exposed for developers:
  ```dart
  FutureOr<void> onRegister(INyxx nyxx, Logger logger) async {}
  FutureOr<void> onBotStart(INyxx nyxx, Logger logger) async {}
  FutureOr<void> onBotStop(INyxx nyxx, Logger logger) async {}
  ```

>   Future version of nyxx will add more hooks and ways of extending nyxx functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Future version of nyxx will add more hooks and ways of extending the functionality of nyxx.
```

#### Improved cache

  `SnowflakeCache` is completely rewritten and now implements `MapMixin<Snowflake, T>` which allows using cache as a normal Map.
  Old `SnowflakeCache`, `ChannelCache` and `MessageCache` were removed.

#### Using nyxx in REST only mode

  Its now possible to use nyxx in REST only mode using `INyxxRest` instance. nyxx won't connect to network and will be able
  to only send requests via REST.

#### Other changes

- Added support for text messages in voice channels. See: `ITextVoiceTextChannel`
- Auth header is now only sent when needed. `IHttpEndpoints.sendRawRequests` allows specifying if request should have auth header injected
- Implemented thread channel edit functionality. See: `IThreadChannel.edit`
- Nyxx won't call exit() anymore - that allows using nyxx in flutter without any problems 
- Official support for Dart 2.15.x

## nyxx_interactions

#### IInteractions

> Similarly to main nyxx library to nyxx_interactions you have to use `IInteractions.create` method because constructor is hidden from public API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to main nyxx library to nyxx_interactions you have to use `IInteractions.create` method because the constructor is hidden from the public API.
```

> `create` function also accepts instance of `InteractionBackend` instead of `INyxx` instance due to upcoming HTTP interactions support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `create` function also accepts instance of `InteractionBackend` instead of `INyxx` instance due to upcoming HTTP interactions support.
```

This allows us creating additional backends for interactions or altering existing ones for wider compatibility and extensibility.

#### `Interface-based entity model`

Concrete implementations of classes are now hidden and interfaces are exposed.

> Here, nothing should particularly change but keep in mind you are now receiving not `User` but `IUser` which represents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, nothing should particularly change but keep in mind you are now receiving not `User` but `IUser` which represents a
```

user entity, but it's completely transparent on what it can do but hides how its achieved. It allows us to modify underlying
logic more easily.

```dart
/// Where bot is instance of INyxx
IInteractions.create(WebsocketInteractionBackend(bot));
```

> Currently, only websocket backend is available (`WebsocketInteractionBackend`). In the future backend for HTTP interactions will be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, only the websocket backend is available (`WebsocketInteractionBackend`). In the future a backend for HTTP interactions will be added.
```

#### Improved autocomplete handling

Autocomplete handlers can be now registered on instance of `CommandOptionBuilder` instead globally on IInteractions. This allows registering
autocomplete handler per command option instead of globally per given option name. In the future we are planning to provide shortcuts for
creating autocomplete command options to simplify code.

#### Other changes
- Fixed various bugs with registering commands and its permissions.
- Add ability to remove guild commands from given guild completely. Previously this behavior was not possible.

## nyxx_commander

#### ICommander

Similarly to main nyxx library to nyxx_commander you have to use `ICommander.create` method because 
constructor is hidden from public API.

#### `Interface-based entity model`

Concrete implementations of classes are now hidden and interfaces are exposed.

> Here, nothing should particularly change but keep in mind you are now receiving not `User` but `IUser` which represents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, nothing should particularly change but keep in mind you are now receiving not `User` but `IUser` which represents a
```

user entity, but it's completely transparent on what it can do but hides how its achieved. It allows us to modify underlying
logic more easily.

#### Other changes
- Fixed bugs with invalid behavior of registering commands

## nyxx_extensions
- Use minified version of emojis endpoint. Fixes #1
- `filterEmojiDefinitions` from `emoji` library now returns `Stream<EmojiDefinition>`
- Export library for each file (part of `Interface-based entity model` for whole library stack)

## nyxx_lavalink

#### `Interface-based entity model`

Concrete implementations of classes are now hidden and interfaces are exposed.

> Here, nothing should particularly change but keep in mind you are now receiving not `User` but `IUser` which represents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, nothing should particularly change but keep in mind you are now receiving not `User` but `IUser` which represents a
```
